en-US/Installing_Fontforge.md, before:

---
published: true
layout: bookpage
weight: 15
category: Getting To Know FontForge
title: Installing FontForge
---

FontForge is libre software, so you can download, share and install copies without any restrictions on usage - both commercial or personal use is encouraged.
It is a community-maintained application, and anyone can contribute to the source code.

FontForge is available in easy to install packages for Windows, Mac OS X and GNU/Linux operating systems.

### Installing FontForge on Windows

An [installation guide](http://fontforge.github.io/en-US/downloads/windows/) is available for the official Windows builds, prepared by Jeremy Tan.

### Installing FontForge on Mac OS X

An [installation guide](http://fontforge.github.io/en-US/downloads/mac/) is available for the official Mac builds, prepared by Dr Ben Martin.

### Installing on GNU/Linux

The easiest method to get FontForge on your Linux machine is to use your Linux distribution’s package repository.

An [installation guide](http://fontforge.github.io/en-US/downloads/gnulinux/) is available for the official GNU/Linux builds.

## Compile your own version from GitHub

GitHub is a source-code hosting service where everyone can contribute to the development of a piece of software.
It stores the current leading state of development of the application.
In some cases, perhaps because you want access to a feature not yet available in the release packages, you may wish to compile your own version from GitHub.

Full instructions are at <https://github.com/fontforge/fontforge/blob/master/INSTALL.md>

## Debugging the FontForge software

See the [Debugging](When_Things_Go_Wrong_With_Fontforge_Itself) section for more information.

Commit message:

Partial update of pages for Installing_Fontforge
Most pages are relatively in sync with the default en-US, but the zh-CN
version contained useful info to pull into other pages referring to older
releases.

en-US/Installing_Fontforge.md, after:

---
published: true
layout: bookpage
weight: 15
category: Getting To Know FontForge
title: Installing FontForge
---

FontForge is libre software, so you can download, share and install copies without any restrictions on usage &mdash; both commercial or personal use is encouraged.
It is a community-maintained application, and anyone can contribute to the source code.

FontForge is available in easy to install packages for Windows, Mac OS X and GNU/Linux operating systems.

### Installing FontForge on Windows

An [installation guide](http://fontforge.github.io/en-US/downloads/windows/) is available for the official Windows builds, prepared by Jeremy Tan.

### Installing FontForge on Mac OS X

An [installation guide](http://fontforge.github.io/en-US/downloads/mac/) is available for the official Mac builds, prepared by Dr Ben Martin.

### Installing on GNU/Linux

The easiest method to get FontForge on your Linux machine is to use your Linux distribution’s package repository.

An [installation guide](http://fontforge.github.io/en-US/downloads/gnulinux/) is available for the official GNU/Linux builds.

### Installing older versions of FontForge

Users who need an older version of Fontforge can look for stable releases
[here](https://github.com/fontforge/fontforge/releases), and
[here](https://sourceforge.net/projects/fontforgebuilds/), and older releases prior to 2012
[here](http://sourceforge.net/projects/fontforge/files/fontforge-executables/).

## Compile your own version from GitHub

GitHub is a source-code hosting service where everyone can contribute to the development of a piece of software.
It stores the current leading state of development of the application.
In some cases, perhaps because you want access to a feature not yet available in the release packages, you may wish to compile your own version from GitHub.

Full instructions are at <https://github.com/fontforge/fontforge/blob/master/INSTALL.md>

## Debugging the FontForge software

See the [Debugging](When_Things_Go_Wrong_With_Fontforge_Itself) section for more information.
